.Dd April 6, 2026
.Dt COREMIDIIO 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm coremidiio
.Nd CoreMIDI I/O bridge
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl rw
.Op Fl f Ar rfd Ns Op , Ns Ar wfd
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Ar command...
.Nm
.Op Fl l
.Nm
.Op Fl n Ar virtportname
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a bridge between MIDI byte streams and a macOS CoreMIDI port.
It sets up file descriptors for reading and writing MIDI messages and
optionally executes a
.Ar command .
.Pp
If
.Ar command
is specified,
.Nm
forks to the background and executes
.Ar command
in the foreground, with the configured file descriptors available for
MIDI I/O.
.Pp
Without a
.Ar command ,
.Nm
forwards MIDI messages between the specified file descriptors and the
CoreMIDI port until terminated.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl r
Read from the CoreMIDI port (receive MIDI input).
.It Fl w
Write to the CoreMIDI port (send MIDI output).
.It Fl f Ar rfd Ns Op , Ns Ar wfd
The file descriptors to use for reading and/or writing MIDI byte
streams.
If only one descriptor is given, it is used for both reading and
writing.
Defaults to 6 for reading and 7 for writing, matching the convention
used by
.Xr oscmix 1 .
.It Fl p Ar port
The CoreMIDI port number to use.
Use
.Fl l
to list available ports with their numbers.
.It Fl l
List all available CoreMIDI ports with their index numbers and names,
then exit.
.It Fl n Ar virtportname
Create a virtual CoreMIDI port with the given name instead of
connecting to an existing port.
.El
.Pp
If neither
.Fl r
nor
.Fl w
is specified, the default is
.Fl rw .
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width MIDIPORT
.It Ev MIDIPORT
If set, used as the CoreMIDI port name to connect to.
Overridden by
.Fl p .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
List available CoreMIDI ports:
.Pp
.Dl coremidiio -l
.Pp
Start
.Xr oscmix 1
using port 2 of a Fireface 802:
.Pp
.Dl coremidiio -f 6,7 -p 2 oscmix
.Pp
Start
.Xr oscmix 1
with multicast output and mDNS registration:
.Pp
.Dl coremidiio -f 6,7 -p 2 oscmix -m -z
.Pp
Using the
.Ev MIDIPORT
environment variable:
.Pp
.Dl MIDIPORT='Fireface 802 (12345678) Port 2' coremidiio -f 6,7 oscmix -m -z
.Pp
Bridge a CoreMIDI port to an ALSA sequencer port on a remote Linux host:
.Pp
.Dl coremidiio ssh mylinux alsaseqio
.Sh AVAILABILITY
.Nm
is only available on
.Tn macOS .
On Linux, use
.Xr alsarawio 1
or
.Xr alsaseqio 1
instead.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr alsarawio 1 ,
.Xr alsaseqio 1 ,
.Xr oscmix 1
