.Dd April 6, 2026
.Dt OSCMIX 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm oscmix
.Nd RME Fireface mixer OSC bridge
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl dhlz
.Op Fl m Op Ar port
.Op Fl p Ar midiport
.Op Fl r Ar recvaddr
.Op Fl s Ar sendaddr
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
implements an OSC API for RME Fireface devices running in
class-compliant mode, allowing full control of the device through OSC.
.Pp
It expects file descriptors 6 and 7 to be open for reading and
writing MIDI messages to the device.
To set these up on Linux, use
.Xr alsarawio 1
or
.Xr alsaseqio 1 .
On macOS, use
.Xr coremidiio 1 .
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d
Enable debug messages.
.It Fl h
Show help and exit.
.It Fl l
Disable level meters.
.It Fl m Op Ar port
Send OSC updates to the multicast address
.Cm 224.0.0.1
on the given
.Ar port
(default:
.Cm 8222 ) .
Shorthand for
.Fl s Cm udp!224.0.0.1! Ns Ar port .
Multiple clients can receive updates simultaneously by joining the
multicast group.
.It Fl p Ar midiport
The MIDI port name to connect to.
If not specified,
.Nm
uses the value of the
.Ev MIDIPORT
environment variable (set automatically by
.Xr alsarawio 1
and
.Xr alsaseqio 1 ) .
.It Fl r Ar recvaddr
The address on which to listen for incoming OSC messages from clients.
Defaults to
.Cm udp!127.0.0.1!7222 .
.It Fl s Ar sendaddr
The address to which
.Nm
sends OSC updates.
Defaults to
.Cm udp!127.0.0.1!8222 .
Use a multicast address (224.0.0.0/4) to broadcast to multiple clients.
.It Fl z
Register the OSC service via mDNS/DNS-SD as
.Cm _osc._udp
so that clients on the local network can discover it automatically.
On Linux this requires Avahi; on macOS Bonjour is used.
The TXT record contains device metadata (id, uid, flags, inputs, outputs,
recvport, sendport, mcast).
.El
.Sh ADDRESS FORMAT
Addresses are specified using the syntax
.Ar proto!addr!port .
.Pp
Currently, the only supported protocol is
.Cm udp .
.Pp
Alternatively, you can specify a file descriptor number instead.
Note that OSC relies on write boundaries being preserved, so this
file descriptor should refer to some open message-oriented socket.
.Sh MDNS / DNS-SD
When started with
.Fl z ,
.Nm
registers itself as an
.Cm _osc._udp
service via mDNS.
The service instance name has the form
.Qq oscmix @ Ar uid
where
.Ar uid
is the device UID including serial number (e.g.\&
.Qq Fireface 802 (12345678) ) .
.Pp
The following TXT record keys are published:
.Bl -tag -width recvport
.It id
Short device identifier (e.g.\&
.Cm ff802 ) .
.It uid
Full device UID with serial number.
.It flags
Device capability bitmask (DEVICE_HAS_DUREC=1, DEVICE_HAS_ROOMEQ=2).
.It inputs
Number of input channels.
.It outputs
Number of output channels.
.It recvport
UDP port clients should send OSC commands to.
.It sendport
UDP port
.Nm
sends updates from.
.It mcast
1 if
.Nm
is sending to a multicast address, 0 otherwise.
.El
.Sh SUPPORTED DEVICES
The following RME Fireface devices are supported when running in
class-compliant mode:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
RME Fireface 802
.It
RME Fireface UCX
.It
RME Fireface UCX II
.It
RME Fireface UFX+
.It
RME Fireface UFX II
.It
RME Fireface UFX III
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width MIDIPORT
.It Ev MIDIPORT
MIDI port name to connect to.
Set automatically by
.Xr alsarawio 1
and
.Xr alsaseqio 1 .
Overridden by
.Fl p .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Start
.Nm
on Linux using alsaseqio with a Fireface UFX III:
.Pp
.Dl alsaseqio 16:0 oscmix
.Pp
Start
.Nm
on Linux using alsarawio:
.Pp
.Dl alsarawio 0,0,3 oscmix
.Pp
Start with multicast output on a custom port and mDNS registration:
.Pp
.Dl alsaseqio 16:0 oscmix -m 8233 -z
.Pp
Start
.Nm
on macOS using coremidiio:
.Pp
.Dl coremidiio -f 6,7 -p 2 oscmix
.Pp
Start on macOS with multicast and mDNS:
.Pp
.Dl coremidiio -f 6,7 -p 2 oscmix -m -z
.Pp
Accept OSC from any interface and send to a specific remote host:
.Pp
.Dl alsaseqio 16:0 oscmix -r udp!0.0.0.0!7222 -s udp!192.168.1.100!8222
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr alsarawio 1 ,
.Xr alsaseqio 1 ,
.Xr coremidiio 1
